# pngf-opt

This C++ project performs PNGF optimization with the Direct Binary Search optimization algorithm using the precomputed matrices generated by `acmefdfd`.

## Usage

With the 'Gmat' matrices produced by `acmefdfd` placed in the same directory as the `pngf-opt` executable, run `./pngf-opt`. The executable does not take arguments.

In default configuration for the substrate antenna example, the starting design is a dipole comprising only the two tiles touching the excitation lumped port. To generate a random starting design, set `const int initial_design` to `INIT_RANDOM`.

If a random seed is desired, set `const int rng_seed` to `0` in `main.cpp` and recompile.

When `pngf-opt` is run, the initial design configuration and the final optimized design are printed to stdout in ASCII art form, in addition to the objective function after 'good' flips where performance improves.

## Notes

- When `pngf-opt` is compiled and run as provided, the following design should be produced, which is the one reported in the paper. Of note, however, is that this design was created with a Linux system. The random number generator (RNG) on different operating systems may behave differently. Thus, if this code is run on a different operating system, it may result in a different final design that does not match the one below, even if the same RNG seed is used.

```
xx.................xx
....x.x..xxx..x.x....
.......x..x..x.......
.....x.x..x..x.x.....
..x....xx.x.xx....x..
.x.x....x.x.x....x.x.
.....x.xx.x.xx.x.....
.xx...x.x...x.x...xx.
.x..x....x.x....x..x.
.x..xx.x.x.x.x.xx..x.
xxx.xx.x.x.x.x.xx.xxx
.x..xx.x.x.x.x.xx..x.
.x..x....x.x....x..x.
.xx...x.x...x.x...xx.
.....x.xx.x.xx.x.....
.x.x....x.x.x....x.x.
..x....xx.x.xx....x..
.....x.x..x..x.x.....
.......x..x..x.......
....x.x..xxx..x.x....
xx.................xx
```

## Details

The objective function used is 200|S_{11}|^2 + (15 - D(0,0))^2, where S_{11} is the reflection coefficient and D(0,0) is the directivity in the antenna broadside direction (i.e. theta = phi = 0). This objective function aims to balance maximizing the directivity while maintaining good matching performance.

An overview of the PNGF optimizer using Direct Binary Search is as follows:

1. The G matrices are loaded, and the starting PNGF system matrix C = (I - P) + PG is computed with the initial design for each frequency.

2. The initial objective function, as well as the R and S matrices (which are updated only on 'good' flips, that improve the objective function) are computed. 

3. In the optimization loop, a random tile is drawn and flipped. The new objective function is calculated.

4. If the objective function has improved compared to the previous best, the flip is retained and the C, R, and S matrices are updated.

5. Otherwise, the flip is discarded, and a new tile is drawn. The tile drawing keeps track of tiles that have already been tested (i.e. draw without replacement).

6. Should all possible tile flips be tested without improvement, the optimization has converged, and the final design is saved.
